1. The following code snippet takes the string "Bananas", reverses it, and stores the result in the variable
reversed_string. True or False?

    ```python
    fruit = "Bananas"
    reversed_string = ""

    for char in fruit:
        reversed_string.append(char)
    ```

    > **FALSE**
    >> This block would fail since there is no .append() method for strings. As well as strings are immutable in python, so even if you added first element to reversed_string from loop, second assignment would have failed.


2. The following print statements both print out the same number to the console. True or False?
    ```python
    sentence = "As good as it gets"

    print(sentence.find('as'))
    print(sentence.rfind('as'))
    ```

    >**TRUE**
    >> Both find() and rfind() would find the same 'as' since 'As' is not the same as 'as'


3. Given the following code snippet, what is printed to the console?

```python
multiline_str = "On\nThree\nLines"
print(len(multiline_str))
```
> **14**
>> The '\n' evaluates to 1 character, so the final answer is 14. 

4. Given the following code snippet, what is printed to the console?

```python
greeting = 'How are you today?'
list_of_chars = list(greeting)
print(list_of_chars[5:8])
```

> **['r','e',' ']**
>> Converting string to a list results in list of characters. Printing elements 5,6 and 7 will return the aray with elements at given indexes

5. Given the following code snippet, what is printed to the console?

```python
query = 'What is going on here?'
new_query = query.split()
print(new_query[-1])
```
> **here?**
>> Splitting the `query` with `split()` without passing the arguments, will use the default `" "` (empty space), which will result in array with 5 elements: ['What', 'is', 'going', 'on', 'here?']
>> Accessing single elelment from the list will print it as individual element, not the array of elements

6. Given the following code snippet, what is printed to the console?

```python
print('a' < 'b')
print('an' > 'and')
print('bananas' > 'Bananas')
```

> True, False, True
> 
>`print('a' < 'b')`:
>>This comparison is straightforward. The ASCII value of 'a' is 97, and the ASCII value of 'b' is 98. Since 97 is less than 98, the expression 'a' < 'b' evaluates to True. 
>
>`print('an' > 'and')`:
>> In this case, the comparison is based on the first characters, and both strings have the same starting characters ('an'). However, the length of the second string ('and') is longer. In lexicographical order, a shorter string is considered smaller. Therefore, 'an' is not greater than 'and', and the expression 'an' > 'and' evaluates to False.
>
>`print('bananas' > 'Bananas')`:
>>The comparison takes into account the ASCII values of the characters. The ASCII value of 'b' is 98, and the ASCII value of 'B' is 66. Since 98 is greater than 66, the expression 'bananas' > 'Bananas' evaluates to True. The comparison is determined by the first characters ('b' and 'B'). If the first characters are different, the comparison result is based on the ASCII values of these characters. In this case, the ASCII value of 'b' (98) is greater than the ASCII value of 'B' (66), so the entire expression evaluates to True.<br>The subsequent characters are not considered in this case because the first characters already establish the relationship. If the first characters were the same, then the comparison would proceed to the next characters until a difference is found or one of the strings ends.

7. What is the result of running the following code snippet?

```python
try:
    print(1/0)
except:
    print ("Something went wrong!")
except ZeroDivisionError:
    print ("You can't divide by 0")
```
> Some other error is raised, preventing the application from executing
>> SyntaxError: default 'except:' must be last

8. What is the result of running the following code snippet?

```python
def dodgy_function():
    assert ""
    raise TypeError
try:
    dodgy_function()
except TypeError:
    print ("TypeError was raised")
except:
    print ("Something else went wrong")
```

> **Something else went wrong**
>> The `assert ""` returns the AssertionError, and the `except` block prints the message. 

9. Given the following code snippet, what is printed to the console?

```python
try:
    raise TypeError()
except TypeError as te:
    print(te.args)
```
> **()**
>> The TypeError is raised without any additional arguments, so the args attribute of the caught exception (te) is an empty tuple.<br> In order to get some output, you have to append text as argument (i.e. `TypeError("Message")`)

10. What is the result of running the following code snippet?

```python
try:
    print (1 / 0)
except ArithmeticError:
    print ('ArithmeticError raised')
except ZeroDivisionError:
    print ('ZeroDivisionError raised')
```

> **ArithmeticError
>> In the provided code, a try block attempts to execute the division 1 / 0, which results in a ZeroDivisionError. However, the except blocks are ordered in a way that the first one that matches the exception type will be executed. In this case, ArithmeticError is a broader category that includes ZeroDivisionError, so the first except block will be triggered.

11. Which two except statements are considered equivalent?

```markdown
- None of the options are considered equivalent
- except: & except BaseException:
- except ArithmeticError: & except ZeroDivisionError:
- except: & except Exception: x
```

> Both except: and except BaseException: are broad catch-all statements that will catch any exception.

12. What is output after running the following code snippet?

```python
num = 65 # This number is the codepoint for an uppercase A
character = chr(num + 1)
print(character)        # B
print(ord(character))   # 66
```
> B
> 66

13. What is the result of running the following code snippet?

```python
try:
    raise ArithmeticError('ArithmeticError Explicitly Raised')
    raise ZeroDivisionError('ZeroDivisionError Explicitly Raised')
except (ArithmeticError, ZeroDivisionError) as err:
    print(err.args)
```

> ('ArithmeticError Explicitly Raised',)

14. Given the following snippet of code, what is printed to the console?

```python
name = "Baz"
name = name * 3 # BazBazBaz

if "azBaz" not in name:
    print("Not here!")
```

> Nothing is printed to the console

15. Given the following snippet of code, what is printed to the console?

```python
whole_pizza = "This is an 8 slice pizza"
num_of_slices = whole_pizza[12:13]
portion = whole_pizza[13:18]
print(f"This is an {num_of_slices} {portion} pizza!")
```
> This is an   slice pizza!
> None of the options are correct

16. What is output after running the following code snippet?

```python
num1 = 1
num2 = '1'
num3 = num1 + num2

print(num1 == num2)
print(num3)
```
>Traceback (most recent call last):
>  File "main.py", line 3, in <module>
>    num3 = num1 + num2
>TypeError: unsupported operand type(s) for +: 'int' and 'str'

17. Given the following code snippet, what is printed to the console?

```python
words = ['This','should', 'make', 'a' ,'sentence.']
sentence = " ".join(words)
sentence = sentence.split(" ")
print (sentence)
```

> ['This', 'should', 'make', 'a', 'sentence.']

18. 

```python
temp1 = '23.7'
temp2 = '19.8'
temp3 = '21.2 C'
print(temp1.isdecimal())
print(temp2.isdigit())
print(temp3.isalnum())
```

> False False False
>
> temp1.isdecimal():
>> The isdecimal() method checks if all characters in the string are decimal digits (0-9). In this case, temp1 contains the decimal point ('.'), so the method returns False.
>> Output: False
>
>temp2.isdigit():
>> The isdigit() method checks if all characters in the string are digits (0-9).Since temp2 contains decimal digits only ('19.8'), the method returns False.
>> Output: False
>
> temp3.isalnum():
>> The isalnum() method checks if all characters in the string are alphanumeric (either letters or numbers). In temp3, there is a space (' ') and a non-alphanumeric character ('.'). Therefore, the method returns False.
>> Output: False


19. Given the following code snippet, what will be printed to the console?

```python
words = ['How', 'it', 'is']
words.sort()
sentence = ''.join(words)
print(sentence.find('is'))
```

> 3
>> "Howisit"

20. The following print statements both print out the same number to the console. True or False?

```python
sentence = 'This is as good as it gets'
print(sentence.find('as')) # 8
print(sentence.rfind('as')) # 16
```

> **False**