# Selected Python modules (math)

Let's start with a quick preview of some of the functions provided by the `math` module.

We've chosen them arbitrarily, but that doesn't mean that the functions we haven't mentioned here are any less significant. Dive into the modules' depths yourself - we don't have the space or the time to talk about everything in detail here.

The first group of the `math`'s functions are connected with **trigonometry**:
- `sin(x)` → the sine of x;
- `cos(x)` → the cosine of x;
- `tan(x)` → the tangent of x.

All these functions take one argument (an angle measurement expressed in radians) and return the appropriate result (be careful with `tan()` - not all arguments are accepted).

Of course, there are also their inversed versions:
- `asin(x)` → the arcsine of x;
- `acos(x)` → the arccosine of x;
- `atan(x)` → the arctangent of x.

These functions take one argument (mind the domains) and return a measure of an angle in radians.

<br><br>

To effectively operate on angle measurements, the `math` module provides you with the following entities:

- `pi` → a constant with a value that is an approximation of π;
- `radians(x)` → a function that converts x from degrees to radians;
- `degrees(x)` → acting in the other direction (from radians to degrees)

Now look at the code in the editor. The example program isn't very sophisticated, but can you predict its results?

<br><br>

Apart from the circular functions (listed above) the `math` module also contains a set of their **hyperbolic analogues**:
- `sinh(x)` → the hyperbolic sine;
- `cosh(x)` → the hyperbolic cosine;
- `tanh(x)` → the hyperbolic tangent;
- `asinh(x)` → the hyperbolic arcsine;
- `acosh(x)` → the hyperbolic arccosine;
- `atanh(x)` → the hyperbolic arctangent.

<br><br>

## Exponentiation

Another group of the math's functions is formed by functions which are connected with **exponentiation**:

- `e` → a constant with a value that is an approximation of Euler's number (e)
- `exp(x)` → finding the value of ex;
- `log(x)` → the natural logarithm of x
- `log(x, b)` → the logarithm of x to base b
- `log10(x)` → the decimal logarithm of x (more precise than `log(x, 10)`)
- `log2(x)` → the binary logarithm of x (more precise than log(x, 2))

**Note:** the `pow()` function:

- `pow(x, y)` → finding the value of xy (mind the domains)
This is a built-in function, and doesn't have to be imported.

<br><br>

## General-purpose functions

The last group consists of some general-purpose functions like:

- `ceil(x)` → the ceiling of x (the smallest integer greater than or equal to x)
- `floor(x)` → the floor of x (the largest integer less than or equal to x)
- `trunc(x)` → the value of x truncated to an integer (be careful - it's not an equivalent either of ceil or floor)
- `factorial(x)` → returns x! (x has to be an integral and not a negative)
- `hypot(x, y)` → returns the length of the hypotenuse of a right-angle triangle with the leg lengths equal to x and y (the same as sqrt(pow(x, 2) + pow(y, 2)) but more precise)


<br><br>
Look at the code in the editor. Analyze the program carefully.

It demonstrates the fundamental differences between `ceil()`, `floor()` and `trunc()`.

Run the program and check its output:

```python
from math import ceil, floor, trunc

x = 1.4
y = 2.6

print(floor(x), floor(y))
print(floor(-x), floor(-y))
print(ceil(x), ceil(y))
print(ceil(-x), ceil(-y))
print(trunc(x), trunc(y))
print(trunc(-x), trunc(-y))
```